NailGun
=======

NailGun is a GPL-licensed Python library that facilitates easy usage of the
Satellite 6 API. It lets you write code like this::

    >>> org = Organization(id=1).read()

This page provides a summary of information about NailGun.

.. contents::

More in-depth coverage is provided in other sections.

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    examples
    api/index

Quick Start
-----------

This script demonstrates how to create and delete an organization, and how to
save some of our work for later re-use::

    >>> from nailgun.config import ServerConfig
    >>> from nailgun.entities import Organization
    >>> server_config = ServerConfig(
    ...     auth=('admin', 'changeme'),      # Use these credentials…
    ...     url='https://sat1.example.com',  # …to talk to this server.
    ... )  # More options are available, e.g. disabling SSL verification.
    >>> org = Organization(server_config, name='junk org').create()
    >>> org.name == 'junk org'  # Access all attrs likewise, e.g. `org.label`
    True
    >>> org.delete()
    >>> server_config.save()  # Save to disk w/label 'default'. Read with get()

This example glosses over *many* features. The :doc:`examples` and :doc:`API
documentation </api/index>` sections provide more in-depth documentation.

Why NailGun?
------------

NailGun exists to make working with the Satellite 6 API easier. Here are some of
the challenges developers face:

* Existing libraries, such as the Python `Requests`_ library, are general
  purpose tools. As a result, client code can easily become excessively
  verbose. See the :doc:`examples` document for an example.
* The Satellite 6 API is not RESTful in its design. As a result, even
  experienced developers may find the API hard to work with.
* The Satellite 6 API is not consistent in its implementation. For example, see
  the "Payload Generation" section of `this blog post`_.

All of the above issues are compounded by the size of the Satellite 6 API. As of
this writing, there are 405 paths. This makes it tough to design compact and
elegant client code.

NailGun addresses these issues. NailGun is specialized, it has a consistent
design, it abstracts away many painful implementation details and it contains
workarounds for certain bugs. Why use a hammer when you can use a nail gun?

Scope and Limitations
---------------------

NailGun is not an officially supported product. NailGun is a Python-only
library, and integration with other languages such as Java or Ruby is not
currently a consideration. Although NailGun is developed with a broad audience
in mind, it targets `Robottelo`_ first and foremost.

NailGun was originally conceived as a set of helper routines internal to
`Robottelo`_. It has since been extracted from that code base and turned in to
an independently useful library.

.. WARNING:: Until version 1.0 is released, functionality will be incomplete,
    and breaking changes may be introduced. Users are advised to read the
    release notes closely.

Resources
---------

The :doc:`examples` and :doc:`API documentation </api/index>` sections provide
more in-depth documentation.

Join the #robottelo channel on the `freenode`_ IRC network to chat with a
human. The `Robottelo source code`_ contains many real-world examples how
NailGun is used, especially the `tests/foreman/api/
<https://github.com/SatelliteQE/robottelo/tree/master/tests/foreman/api>`_
directory. `This blog post`_ provides a glimpse in to the challenges that
NailGun is designed to overcome.

Contributing
------------

Contributions are encouraged. The easiest way to contribute is to submit a pull
request on GitHub, but patches are welcome no matter how they arrive.

You can use pip and make to quickly set up a development environment::

    pip install -r requirements.txt -r requirements-dev.txt
    make lint
    make test
    make docs-html

Please adhere to the following guidelines:

* Lint your code with flake8 and pylint. This can be done easily by executing
  ``make lint``. The former linter must pass with zero warnings, and warnings
  from the latter linter should be minimized.
* Check for errors by running the unit test suite. This can be done easily by
  executing ``make test``. It must pass with zero errors.
* Document your code. Documentation can be easily generated by executing ``make
  docs-html``.
* Unit tests are *very* highly recommended.
* Adhere to typical commit guidelines:

    * Commits should not cause NailGun to break.
    * Commits should be small and coherent. One commit should address one issue.
    * Commits should have `good commit messages`_.
    * `Rebasing`_ is encouraged. Rebasing produces a much nicer commit history
      than merging.

* When in doubt, ask on IRC.

.. _Foreman bug #4638: http://projects.theforeman.org/issues/4638
.. _freenode: https://freenode.net/
.. _good commit messages: http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html
.. _Rebasing: http://www.git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Branching-Rebasing
.. _Requests: http://docs.python-requests.org/en/latest/
.. _Robottelo: http://robottelo.readthedocs.org/en/latest/
.. _Robottelo source code: https://github.com/SatelliteQE/robottelo
.. _this blog post: http://www.ichimonji10.name/blog/4/
